>> Shirley Wu: I started using D3 and
React together I think back in 2014,
because my job started using, decided we
wanted to move from Backbone to React.
And one of the biggest problems,
>> Shirley Wu: Okay so
this is, but everybody knows React and
what React does?
Cool.
So D3,
it has the enter-update-exit pattern and
React has a virtual DOM diffing.
It basically does, I think I say they
both try solve the same problem, but
they also, the problem is they
both want control of the DOM.
With React and
a lot of those like MVC frameworks,
like a lot of the problem is the fact that
both of them want control of the DOM.
About two years ago after we
started using React, I went and
figured out a few different approaches and
I actually wrote about one of
the approaches in my Medium article.
>> Shirley Wu: And it's called On D3,
React, and a little bit of Flux.
And it goes into extreme detail
about how I use React and
D3 together in such a way,
>> Shirley Wu: Yeah
it goes into a lot of detail.
Because I think it was a little bit
of a non conventional approach.
So I have three approaches and
that's my second approach.
And I think in this talk,
I talk about like-
>> Shirley Wu: So,
who should be doing the data calculation
and who should be doing the rendering.
So approach number one is the use case is
an application with a pretty small data
set and a pretty simple visualization.
And in that case, I use React for
the structures, so
base structures I mean the component
structures cuz that's kinda nice.
And then I use it D3 for
the data calculation and I use React for
the rendering.
>> Shirley Wu: So,this is I
think the example code I have,
it's basically a force layout that
when you click on update button it's
just like randomly generates new node
data and then updates through that.
And this is built with React and
D3 with my first approach
where D3 does all of the data calculation
and React does all of the rendering.
So I believe this is, yeah,
so I have a React's graph
component, I create a graph component, and
then I say okay, when,
>> Shirley Wu: And
this is where I defined the force layout.
And then I say,
okay when the component mounts or
will mount, and
this is also version three,
just to put it out there.
This is version three of everything,
of D3.
So on each tick,
force an update on the React component.
Then on each update
what react is doing it is literally
drawing all the nodes and links.
It has the r attribute,
the x, the dy, the x1,
y1, y2 of the line.
So React is taking care
of all of the rendering.
And then,
yeah I return all of the nodes and links.
So this is the first approach.
Yeah, so D3 is just doing the data
calculation of getting the X and
Y of each of the nodes.
And then React does the setting
the attribute on those nodes and links.
So this is what I think is like the most
straight forward simple approach.
And so
the pro of it is like it's very clean,
you're like your data, or
I mean sorry, your code and
how you reason about it is very clean,
it's very easy to reason about it.
But the con is that [COUGH]
you
have to do the reacted life
cycle on every single tick.
So like it's literally going through, so
react has the whole component I think,
I guess like component should update.
Component did update and all of those
things in between that I can't remember
and that's also where they're
doing the virtual DOM diffing.
And so on every single take and those
takes are fired really quickly and that
life cycle is been called for every single
take, and that can get really unperfomant.
And this is also true for
things like animations is really hard for
this approach.
Using D3 transitions is hard,
using this approach
because with the D3 transitions,
D3 needs access to the DOM
to be able to update the attributes on
every single one of those interpolations,
the animation interpolation.
So you can't use D3 functions
that need access to the DOM.
For example, the D3 axes that we used
earlier, that's like super nice,
we can't use that because that's D3
taking control of the DOM and rendering.
You can't do anything that basically
needs to update really quickly.
So you can't do drag functions,
because you need to, or I mean you can but
drag functions can get unperformant,
and zoom functions get unperformant.
So there's a lot of things that if you,
if all you need is
a little bar chart, a line chart that
doesn't need to update all that often or
doesn't need animations or something.
And you just need to stick that into your
React app, this approach is really great.
But if you want to get pass that, to like
different interactions that need a lot of
updating, it does not do as good of a job.
So the second approach is the approach
I mentioned earlier that I covered in
extreme detail in this article.
But the basic thing about it is, so the
use case is an application with a really
small dataset, but
it's a highly interactive visualization.
And the way that I think
about that is I use
React again for component structure.
D3 for the data calculation and
D3 and React for the rendering.
So React takes care of
the elements of entering and
exiting the elements and then D3 takes
care of updating the attributes.
So my example code.
>> Shirley Wu: So this is exact
same thing that we saw earlier, but
the only difference is,
>> Shirley Wu: Okay so
this that same graph component,
and D3 is still doing
the calculation on each tick of the x and
y position and calculation.
But now what we're doing is, we
are creating a node and link component for
each of the nodes and links, so
that when component
mounts
>> Shirley Wu: Wait,
hold on, this is where I mean that it's
been a while since I looked at this code.
Okay, so I think,
because I structured it this way.
Okay, so componentDidMount will
basically Map to the enter,
like what you would do for
entering a selection.
And then componentDidUpdate,
will map to the update selection,
what you would do to the update selection.
And then I think component
will unmount and
will be the exit selection.
So I think that is all I'm doing here,
that I'm calling the enter node and
in enter node all I do is.
So basically for
the node component, react component,
I define a circle and I define a text.
But I set the r attribute here,
I also tell it you can force drag, and I
set the x and y of the text and
update node as the force
is ticking through it.
I set the x and y of the node with D3,
is the drag not working?
Yeah, so this is like a lot
more convoluted of an approach,
but the reason why we ended up with
this at the company I used to work for.
One of the reasons that we moved to
React was because when we had backbone.
We started getting really,
really confused about all of
the elements that needed to be entered.
And all of the elements that needed to be
exited, and how do we keep track of them?
And then like, on what event should we
be entering this, on what event should
we be exiting this, and on what
event should we be doing the update?
And all of this got so confusing,
and we couldn't keep track of all
the interactions that when we
moved to React we were like.
That's it, we're getting React to
figure out what needs to be entered and
exited because that's the hard part
that we couldn't keep track of.
And so we're gonna use the virtual
dom to calculate that for us.
And all we're going to use D3 for
is updating the attributes because
one of the things that we wanted
was being able to animate.
And so like I mentioned
before with D3 transition,
D3 wants access to the X and Y attributes.
So if I just give the control of
the attributes to D3 and
have React do the enter and
exit, then they're not actually
overlapping in control.
And so the thought process behind
this works, and it worked well,
and I think this is example app,
and I think the whole point
was if you have a lot of data.
That changes or you can manipulate
things cuz this one was I think, if this
was a budget app like that example expense
app that I made for this blog post.
That then took me like two
months because I was like,
I'm gonna add this functionality,
I'm gonna add this functionality.
And I think all that I wanted to
demonstrate here is there's different
parts of the page that can edit
the data in different ways.
So I could delete this and
then that expense goes away or
I can add one that's like coffee and
then that's like three dollars maybe.
And then adds and
then I can categorize it, and
there's a lot of things I could do
that can change the visualization.
And I think all I wanted to show for it is
the functionality and then showing you
the different animations and transitions.
And that's possible with this second
attempt or a second approach.
So the pros and cons, the pro I feel
was it really took advantage of
the respective strengths for React and D3.
So D3 obviously, always use it for
the data calculation but
then we can take advantage
of D3s transitions,
but then we can also use
React to do the virtual dom.
So that we don't have to have the mental
strain of personally taking care of what
to enter and exit.
>> Shirley Wu: So the cons were the React
component around all the nodes,
if you start having lots of nodes,
that's extremely unperformant also.
Another con is if you notice with this
example I don't actually
have exit node because.
Or I don't do anything with D3,
I don't update any of the attributes for
D3 on exit.
You can't actually animate the nodes out
with this particular approach because
React will just immediately remove all
of the nodes that should be exiting.
So you don't have enough
time to do your animation,
you'll start your animation and will just
be like remerged right away because.
React in D3 don't have that
communication to know that the nodes
should only be removed after
the animation completes.
So that's another thing, and then it
also made people really uncomfortable.
There were like, this feels wrong, this
feels wrong to use React in D3 like this.
I thought about a lot cuz I was like,
well maybe.
But at the end of the day,
if your product has
certain needs and
then it's not giving you bugs,
like if this approach
isn't giving you bugs.
Then I guess, how do you define wrong,
what's best practice?
And so that's my response to that.
>> Shirley Wu: So the third approach is
actually the approach that I pretty much
use now.
This is pretty much how
I code my React in D3.
So, the use case for
this that I originally thought of was
an app with a really large dataset and
frequently updating visualization.
>> Shirley Wu: So for that one, I use
React for the component structure and
I use D3 for the data calculation and
I use D3 for all of the rendering,
whether it's enter, exit, or updating.
And so
all that happens there is essentially,
>> Shirley Wu: It looks uglier but
all React does is make
this group container,
we set a ref on it so that D3 knows to.
Wrap that node, wow, this is a really
old version of React too [LAUGH].
But yeah, so
it basically grabs that group element and
wraps it in d3, and
then we just D3 the whole way through.
>> Shirley Wu: The whole thing and, yeah?
>> Audience 1: So, on this strategy you
used to react to just create a container.
>> Shirley Wu: Yeah.
>> Audience 1: And so here at d3,
here is a nice tasty piece
of a real DOM just for you.
>> Shirley Wu: Yeah.
>> Audience 1: And then now, is this,
now you can go about using d3
just the way everyone here has learned it,
where you can have transitions,
you can have enter exit update,
right, and all that stuff.
>> Shirley Wu: So.
>> Audience 1: Okay.
>> Shirley Wu: Yeah, basically,
all React did is to react,
that group is this black box,
that it doesn't need to care about, and
two, d3, it's like, this container that
you can go crazy in and have fun in And
so that's this approach.
And then so back when I first gave
this talk I was like the pro,
the visualization scales, and
you can use all the d3 functions,
like you would just use d3 in any, you can
even copy over Mike Bostock's index.html.
Well I mean not all of it, but
you can copy pieces of the code over and
it works as long as you scope
it correctly, and this is great
except the con is then why are you using,
like where are you even react both?
And so I actually think,
since I gave this talk a year and
a half ago I have come to like
really appreciate this approach,
because it, one gives me the freedom
to use d3 anyway I like.
And then it also likes gives me
the freedom to use react, like there's
something that's amazingly beautiful
about how react forces me to think about,
like components, componetizing like my
visualizations, and so I love that and
I love using react for just communication
between each of the different components.
So if I have multiple visualizations
that are linked together,
like if this visualization effects what
is displayed in this other visualization.
React makes that like
communication super easy for
me whereas like I was just used d3 or
something.
I will have to use like a bunch of
dispatches to like do the communication
which is kinda like what
we're doing with backbone
reacts like makes that
thought process super easy.
And then,
I think I also appreciate the fact that
my application isn't going to
just have visualizations, right?
It might have, like for example,
that Obama piece had a lot of text
that explained things, my Hamilton
piece had different parts to it also.
And so I use React normally for
all of those non-data viz parts of
my app and use this approach for
the visualization part of my app, and I
just do whatever I want with d3 within it.
So the lessons I learned was the most,
most important,
if there is nothing else that you get out
of this is never, ever, ever have React
and D3 controlling the same parts of the
DOM, or else you're gonna get nasty bugs.
I think I still very,
very vividly remember, I think I had
used I accidentally had React
to keep track of an attribute or
something or a specific element and
then d3 do something to it, and I was
just getting nasty bugs for the whole
entire afternoon, then I was really sad.
Just make sure their controls
don't overlap and then I then
don't think I've ever seen bugs as long
as I don't have their controls overlap.
Yeah, that one's cheesy, and
then these ones assess the needs
of the project and then figure out
what the combination of d3 and React is
that makes sense is, and that's Zootopia.